Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture let's create a dictionary of pikemen terms and definitions because I think that
would actually be helpful.
So the pilot poems on the left and their means are on the right.
So let's start off by creating a dictionary.
And as you can see I've added some comments and you might notice as well back in my Sublime Text Editor
and that's because I don't need to get any input from a user's perspective so sublime although it's
a great editor great for writing and great at running small pite and programs you can't give it any
user input.
So that's why I switched into Idol for the last few lectures but now I'm back in supply.
OK.
So let's create a dictionary and actually let's start off a comment create a dictionary of terms.
There we go.
OK so terms equals.
And as we said Open record brackets and let's put it in our first hand which is variable A B.
Perfect very close or single quotes colon and its value wrap resents or refers to a value stored in
memory.
Okay perfect.
Now next let's add in and we separate out our key value pairs by a comma a string.
So what is a string.
And don't forget your single quotes like I have just on here.
So we have string colon a sequence.
And again I just forgot my colons let me just do it up before we go any farther.
A sequence of characters
and that's close to us.
OK there we go.
Perfect.
Now we have a dictionary with two keys and two values.
One of the most frequent things that you'll do with a dictionary is use a key to get it to value.
So let's take a look now at how we do this.
The simplest way to retrieve a value from a dictionary is by accessing it with its key.
To do this you give the name of the dictionary and then place the key inside a set in square brackets.
So as we saw previously Let's go print the name of our dictionary terms on the key that we want to retrieve
the value for.
So we use square brackets single quote variable.
OK let's run this and see what we get.
Represents our affairs were of value stored in memory.
OK.
So it's working.
Something to remember here is that this process works only one way.
Give a key get a value.
You cannot give a value and get a key.
Now it will sometimes be necessary to start with an empty dictionary.
If you try to get a value from a key that doesn't exist you'll generate an error.
So before you start to access a dictionary Eidur populated or empty.
It's a good idea to check if a key exist before attempting to retrieve its value.
You can do this using pikeman in OPERATOR OK let's modify our program here so we can leave our terms
in place.
Just add in a couple of spaces and never go.
If so let's think of a term that we don't have in our dictionary.
So let's say float is in a floating number if float as we know a float is a number with a decimal point.
So if float in terms print
I know what a float is.
What a dictionary telling us that it has its Or else
present
I do not know what that is.
OK.
So let's have a look here now just clean that up a little bit and let's run it again.
So as you can see now down the bottom left hand corner we have I do not know what that is.
And then we have our variable because we have a print line getting our variable here getting the meaning
of the variable here.
Apologies.
So as we do not have the key float in terms we get the we got the message.
I do not know what that is.
If it had been in there.
We've all got the message.
I know what a float is.
We can use the in operator with dictionaries and much the same way as we did with less.
We take the value that we're checking for followed by an followed by the dictionary.
This creates a condition.
The condition is true if the key is in the dictionary.
Otherwise it's false.
So if you are starting out with an empty dictionary how do we get key value pairs into it.
OK well let's take a look at that.
First we create an empty dictionary and that's what an empty dictionary looks like.
Now terms equals curly bracket with nothing inside it so a dictionary is empty.
Then we add our key value pairs.
So let's add terms which is the name for a dictionary.
And we're at again variable as you can see.
Single quote brackets and a variable is the key.
So we want to assign it the value represents
or refers to a value stored in memory.
OK perfect.
What about adding new value.
Keep a dictionary.
Well if you've seen the process is the same as if you were starting out with an empty dictionary.
Adding a new value that we haven't seen.
Yes times square brackets.
Single quote integer equals
a whole number.
OK there we go.
Let's print out these terms so print
terms which is named for a dictionary and we want to guess variable and then we want to print again
print terms in your let's run that and see what we get.
There we go bottom left.
We have our output so there is another way to retrieve the value from a dictionary and that is to use
pipings get method and that's what we'll be looking at in the next lecture.
So as always if you have any questions please don't hesitate to contact me.
Thank you for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.